Part 2: About SCB v2 Architecture (#79)
secureCodeBox/documentation: blog/2021-06-12-the-architecture-of-securecodebox-v2.md

---
title: The Architecture of securecodeBox v2
author: Sven Strittmatter
author_title: Core Developer
author_url: https://github.com/Weltraumschaf
author_image_url: https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/3fe213284598b5cb69009665902c77a1
tags:
  - secureCodeBox
  - architecture
  - v2
description: This post describes the architecture of the secureCodeBox v2.
image: /img/blog/2021-06-12-orange-reflective-architecture.jpg
draft: true
---

![Orange Reflective Architecture](/img/blog/2021-06-12-orange-reflective-architecture.jpg)

Cover photo by [Alex wong](https://unsplash.com/@killerfvith) on [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/s/photos/architecture).

## Architecture of the Version 2

> In [Kubernetes 1.17 a new concept of custom resources was introduces](https://medium.com/velotio-perspectives/extending-kubernetes-apis-with-custom-resource-definitions-crds-139c99ed3477). The short idea is, that you may extend Kubernetes with your own resources additionally to the default ones shipped with Kubernetes. Why should you do this? The intresting part of Kubernetes is that it is a great tool for resource management. Solely it is the the most important part of Kubernetes. In *version 1* we "abused" a BPMN engine for this work. But since the most important parts of the *secureCodeBox* (the *scanners*) are containers anyway, it makes sence to use a tool which is desigend for handling such resources. So we came up with the idea to define the *scanners* as custom resources and replace the heavy *engine* from *version 1* with a custom [operator](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/) for Kubernetes. This idea is based upon the master thesis our core maintainer [Jannik](https://github.com/J12934) has written about [Automatic Assessment of Applications Security Aspects running in Cloud Environments](https://files.hollenbach.dev/master-thesis-jannik-hollenbach.pdf). The following diagram shows the new architecture of *secureCodeBox version 2*.

Reviewer: 1.7 not 1.17
```suggestion
In [Kubernetes 1.7 a new concept of custom resources was introduced](https://medium.com/velotio-perspectives/extending-kubernetes-apis-with-custom-resource-definitions-crds-139c99ed3477). The short idea is, that you may extend Kubernetes with your own resources in addition to the default ones shipped with Kubernetes. Why should you do this? The interesting part of Kubernetes is that it is a great tool for resource management. Solely it is the the most important part of Kubernetes. In *version 1* we "abused" a BPMN engine for this work. But since the most important parts of the *secureCodeBox* (the *scanners*) are containers anyway, it makes sense to use a tool which is designed for handling such resources. So we came up with the idea to define the *scanners* as custom resources and replace the heavy *engine* from *version 1* with a custom [operator](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/) for Kubernetes. This idea is based upon the master thesis our core maintainer [Jannik](https://github.com/J12934) has written about [Automatic Assessment of Applications Security Aspects running in Cloud Environments](https://files.hollenbach.dev/master-thesis-jannik-hollenbach.pdf). The following diagram shows the new architecture of *secureCodeBox version 2*.
```

Author: What is the concrete change here?
